.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.ds release-date February 8, 2011
.ds xinu-platform avr-Xinu
.\"
.Os XINU V7
.Dd \*[release-date] 
.Dt RFILSYS \&4 \*[xinu-platform]      \" Program name and manual section number 
.Sh NAME                               \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm rfilsys
.Nd remote file system pseudo-device driver (types rfm, rf)
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In rfile.h
.In fserver.h
.Fo read
.Fa "int device"
.Fa "char *buffer"
.Fa "int length"
.Fc
.Fo write
.Fa "int device"
.Fa "char *buffer"
.Fa "int length"
.Fc
.Fo open
.Fa "int device"
.Fa "char *name"
.Fa "int mode"
.Fc
.Fo close
.Fa "int device"
.Fc 
.Fo control
.Fa "int device"
.Fa "int function"
.Fa "char *arg1"
.Fa "char *arg2"
.Fc
.Fo init
.Fa "int device"
.Fc 
.Fo seek
.Fa "int device"
.Fa "long offset"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The \f2rfm\f1 and \f2rf\f1 pseudo-device drivers work as a pair to
provide access to remote files using a Xinu remote file server across
an Internet.
There is one master remote file pseudo-device (type \f2rfm\f1)
for a given remote server.
When users open the master remote file pseudo-device, they pass it the
name of a specific file and the access mode for that file.
The call to OPEN(2) returns the device descriptor of a remote file
pseudo-device (type \f2rf\f1) connected to the named file.
.Pp
Once opened, a user calls
READ(2), WRITE(2), GETC(2), or PUTC(2), to transfer data between
the user program and the remote file; they call SEEK(2) to position the
file pointer.
The user calls CLOSE(2) to disconnect from the file.
Finally, users call CONTROL(2) on the master pseudo-device to test
file access protections, remove files, or change file names.
.Pp
The standard Xinu device name for the remote file master pseudo-device is
\f2RFILSYS\f1; the standard Xinu device name for individual remote
file pseudo-devices is \f2RFILE\f1.
The operations on these devices are defined by:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It open(device, name, mode)
Opens a connection to a remote file given the file name and access mode,
and returns the device descriptor used to access the file.
See ACCESS(2) for valid file modes.
.It read(device buffer, length)
Transfers up to  \f2length\f1 bytes of data from a file to
the user's \f2buffer\f1, and returns the number of bytes found
or \f2EOF\f1 if no more data remains in the file.
.It write(device, buffer, length)
Writes \f2length\f1 bytes of data to a file from the user's \f2buffer\f1.
File length extends automatically if needed.
.It close(device)
Disconnect from a file, leaving it on secondary storage.
.It control(device, function, arg1, arg2)
Handles file manipulation other than data transfer.
The possible functions are:
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It FLACCESS \- test access (\f2arg1\f1 is mode string).
.It FLREMOVE \- remove file named by \f2arg1\f1.
.It FLRENAME \- rename file named by \f2arg1\f1 to \f2arg2\f1
.It FLCLEAR \- clear the remote file datagram port
.El
.It init(device)
When called with an \f2rf\f1 device, initializes the pseudo-device
data structures at system startup.
Initializing the master pseudo-device has no effect.
.It seek(device,offset)
Positions the file to \f2offset\f1 bytes from the beginning.
.El
